In the last video, we looked at
this HTML page that we created for our front-end of the Dapp.
Again, we just took the boilerplate code, made some changes,
we just have some basic buttons and stuff,
a very simple front-end page.
In this video, let's look at the index.js file.
This is where the scripts are coming from for our HTML page.
So, in the scripts folder, of course, we can have multiple scripts.
In our case, we just have index dot js.
So, let's go open this over here.
So, I have my own version here very similar to what the boilerplate code came
with and all I've done is
some little changes and I'm going to walk you through those shortly over here.
But let me show you the web3 object.
Now, this is where we're actually importing the web3 library here.
Remember, web3 is the only way you can
programmatically connect with the world of a theorem.
So in case a is not injected by the browser coming from MetaMask,
then we're just importing web3 module,
and you'll see what that means just in a second once I scroll down.
Then we're also having the contract module and remember it,
we used this in the testing files,
do it initiative contracts.
So, once you get the contract model from truffle-contract,
we're just using that to deploy the artifact.
So, we're importing the artifacts just the way like we did the JSON representation,
like we did in the testing files so that we can have
a usable abstraction that we can use all throughout the code now.
So now, this is something that is
an instance of the contract that we can call functions on.
Of course, we're going to deploy it first.
So, that's that. Then we have the app object.
Okay, so if you look in this app object which has a bunch of
methods like the start method and walking through,
there is set status methods,
star name, star owner,
claim star, all those functions they're coming from right here.
Then, what we're doing is we're attaching the objects to a Window.
So this app object,
we're attaching it to the window, window.App.
Once we do that, then we're adding an event listener to our window,
so that when anyone opens the front page of a Dapp,
event listener clicks in.
Now, this is all that just came with the boilerplate code, I'm just walking you through.
So again, we have the app object with all the functions that we call,
then we're attaching it to the Window and then we're adding an event listener,
so that all these functions can click in whenever
someone does anything on the Window or the Window front object, okay?
A Window's Dapp starts.
So, what we're doing is that the first thing when this Dapp starts,
if you see there's a function here called window.start, or app.start.
So, this is the function that gets automatically cold if you see,
as soon as the EventListener clicks in.
So, as soon as EventListener clicks in,
you're going to call the app.start.
Now, before we do that,
you remember again we have this only programmatic way.
So what we're doing is that,
we're seeing if there is web3 available, okay?
So, we're just checking if there's web3 available.
If no web3 is detected,
then we are using the web3 that comes along with a truffle
or you're just getting a copy that come from MetaMask. So, it's simple as that.
So, it's seeking if there is a web3 version available and if it's not undefined,
that means it is available.
You can just use the window.
If not, we're using our own web3
that is coming along with the module that we just imported in.
So, pretty simple, look through it, you'll just understand again.
This is all boilerplate code,
I didn't change anything at all.
So, once we have that and also this is where the port is coming from.
Remember, this is 95,
45 is a port with a truffle development console, runs by default.
So, it's checking if web3 was injected.
If not, it's getting its own version and it's getting the version.
Of course, it needs where it's running because
that's where the truffle port, the console, is running.
So, we're getting that again, all boilerplate code,
I have not changed anything at all.
Now, once we have web3 setup,
then we're calling the app.start method.
This is where if you look,
let's go look in the app.start method. So, app.start.
All we're doing here is first of all,
we're fetching accounts to make sure we
have all the accounts available that we need to set up,
and then also configuring our provider.
The provider, you've probably learned about this in our previous lessons.
The provider is how web3 talks to the block chain.
So, once we have the provider,
we need to now configure the provider, okay,
and then we are fetching accounts to make sure we have available accounts to work with.
Now, you can keep this code,
whatever came with the boilerplate code,
or I'm actually going to give all this code in the bottom of this page,
pretty simple to understand.
One thing I wanted to mention,
I like to use a sync await syntax just because it makes the code very clean.
So, what I'm doing in my app object,
I'm just having functions.
So, let's look at for example a function star name,
star owner, claim star.
So, remember these are the functions recalling from our HTML,
app.star name, app.star owner.
But inside these function,
you're really not doing anything just because within
object you'd actually use a sync await syntax,
so I'm just calling a function.
That's it. So, I can outside now use a sync await syntax.
So, that just makes my code quite a bit clean.
So, inside this function, let's go for example to get star name function.
So, we're calling the star name function from inside that and that's it.
So, now I can actually use a sync await
syntax and it just makes my code quite a bit cleaner.
Just like the way if you look in the test,
if you remember from the tests, very similar.
So, we get an instance of the contract by deploying it,
then it returns a reusable deployed address and
then we can call functions or sent transactions just the way we did in the test.
So, in the star name function, we're deploying it,
we're getting an instance back,
and then we are calling functions using either call.
Then, what we're doing is that using get the element ID by whatever the HTML.
For example in this case,
this element had an ID of name.
So, we want to put something in that name,
so we're just calling it element ID name and then
changing that in our HTML and writing whatever the responses.
So, that's how you get the Star name back,
and same thing happening in start owner,
same thing happening in claim star.
Once we claim a star,
we have a set status area in our HTML page where we're putting whatever the status is.
So, that's how it looks like.
Now, we've done the task,
we've written and done all that stuff.
So, let's go and now see how our front page and front end looks like.